Bvcse CHAT


MANUAL.TXT

This file describes the operation of the Bvcse Chat client.  If you need
instructions on setting up a chat server, please see the file
MANUAL-SERVER.TXT


1. RUNNING Bvcse

  (If you're reading this from within the Bvcse client, you don't need
  this first section.  Skip to section 2.)

  Bvcse runs using Java.  Both the client and the server need a Java
  virtual machine in order to launch.  However, what you'll need to do
  to satisfy this requirement depends on how you want to use it...


  ...AS A STANDALONE APPLICATION

  If you want to run the server, or run the client as a standalone Java
  application, then you will need to obtain/locate the command-line program
  called 'java'.  After you have done this, you will need to set your
  CLASSPATH.  This variable tells the Java software where to find all the
  parts of Bvcse that it needs.  After you download and/or build Bvcse,
  you will have a file called 'Bvcse.jar'.  You need to put the pathname
  of this file into your CLASSPATH variable.

  For example, using 'csh' on a unix-like system, you would do something
  like:

	setenv CLASSPATH /directory/path/Bvcse.jar:$CLASSPATH

  Under DOS/Windows, it's more like this:

	set CLASSPATH=c:\directory\path\Bvcse.jar;%CLASSPATH%

  Now you can start either a Bvcse client, a server, or both.  To start
  the client, invoke the Java interpreter with the name 'Bvcse', plus any
  of the options shown:

	java Bvcse [-username name] [-password password]
		[-servername host] [-portnumber port] [-autoconnect]
		[-chatroom room] [-xsize width] [-ysize height]
		[-nopasswords] [-locksettings] [-hidecanvas]

  -username
	Using this flag followed by a user name automatically sets the user
	name in the client.

  -password
	Using this flag followed by a password automatically sets the
	password in the client.

  -servername
	This parameter allows you to set the server name in the client.
	If none is specified, the default is the server at Bvcseitc.com.

  -portnumber
	This option, followed by a numerical port value, allows the user
	to specify a TCP port different from the Bvcse Chat default of
	12468

  -autoconnect
	This flag will cause the client to attempt to connect automatically.
	Note that if any required information is missing (such as user names,
	passwords, server names, etc) the client will prompt the user for it.

  -chatroom
	This option is used in conjunction with the -autoconnect parameter, 
	and is used to set the name of the initial chat room inhabited by the
	user.  If the room does not already exist, the server will create it.

  -xsize
	This sets the initial width of the client window.  This is mostly
	useful as an applet parameter when launching the client from a
	web page, but it is provided as an application parameter anyway.

  -ysize
	See '-xsize'

  -nopasswords
	Do not require the user to enter a password.  By default, passwords
	are required to be entered by the user even if the server does not
	require them.	

  -locksettings
	Once the user name, password, server, port, etc. are set, do not
	allow them to be changed by the user.

  -hidecanvas
	Don't show the drawing canvas
 

  To start the server in its default configuration, simply type

	java BvcseServer

  See the file MANUAL-SERVER.TXT for more information about the different
  options available for invoking the server.


  ...OR AS A CLIENT APPLET FROM A WEB PAGE

  When running the client as an applet from an HTML document, the user's web
  browser will need to be Java-enabled.  Next, you need to make sure all of
  Bvcse's .class files are free-standing (i.e. compile them from the
  sources or extract them from the .jar archive included with the binary
  distribution).  To launch the applet from your HTML document, you should
  insert a tag that looks something like this:

	<APPLET archive="Bvcse.jar" code="BvcseApplet.class"
                codebase="http://your.server.org/Bvcse_directory/"
		width="0" height="0">
  		<param name="username" value="some_user_name">
  		<param name="password" value="some_user_password">
  		<param name="servername" value="your.server.org">
  		<param name="portnumber" value="12468">
  		<param name="autoconnect" value="yes">
  		<param name="chatroom" value="some_initial_room">
		<param name="xsize" value="some_number">
		<param name="ysize" value="some_number">
  		<param name="usepasswords" value="no">
  		<param name="locksettings" value="yes">
  		<param name="hidecanvas" value="yes">
		You'll need a browser with Java support to run the
		Bvcse Chat applet!
	</APPLET>

  All of the 'param' entries above are optional.  'username', 'servername',
  'portnumber', and 'chatroom' allow your HTML page to pre-set those values
  in the client (so that the user doesn't need to enter them before
  connecting).  The default port number is always 12468, but it can be
  changed if desired.  The parameter 'locksettings' will prevent the user
  from changing the user name, server name, or port number values.  
  Setting the parameter 'usepasswords' to 'no' will cause the client not
  to require the user to enter a password.  The parameter 'autoconnect' will
  cause the applet to connect to the specified server without prompting the
  user.  The parameter 'hidecanvas' can be used to prevent the drawing canvas
  from appearing at startup time.  

  Please note that an unsigned applet client (for Java
  security reasons) is only allowed to connect to the same server that it
  was downloaded from.  That means that the 'codebase' argument above will
  generally need to be the same as the 'servername' argument.  See the 
  beginning of section 3: "How to Use the Bvcse Server" for more detail.


2. USING THE Bvcse CLIENT (the chat program)

  Connecting to a Server

  You can initiate a connection by selecting 'File/Connect' from the
  menu bar.  If your connection attempt is successful, you should see a
  message in the conference window such as "Welcome to Bvcse Chat".  Also,
  the 'Currently sending to' list should fill up with the user names of all
  the connected users.  Otherwise, you should see a small dialog box with an
  error message.

  NOTE: Before you can connect to a server, you will need to specify the
  user name with which you would like to identify yourself, the name of the
  server to which you would like to connect, and also the TCP/IP port number
  at the server (there are defaults for these last two).  These settings can
  be adjusted using the 'Connection settings' box (see below) -- however if
  you do not do this before attempting to connect, the settings box will
  prompt you automatically.


  The Connection Settings Box

  This dialog box is where you specify all of the settings to be used
  in communication.  These include your desired user name, the server
  to connect to, your location, and any other personal information you'd
  like to share while connected.  To bring up the box, select
  'View/Connection settings' from the menu.

  Your user name must be entered.  This field is mandatory.

  The server name is the host name or IP address of the server to which you
  desire a connection.  For example:

	localhost
		- This will connect to a server running on the same
		machine as the client.

	visopsys.org
		- Try visopsys.org to see if a server is running there.
		This is entered by default.

	161.184.78.114
		- You can specify a server's IP address directly.

  This field is also mandatory. 

  The port number is set to '12468' by default.  This is the TCP port
  on which a server will run by default unless another is specified.
  Thus you probably want to leave this field alone unless you've been
  specifically instructed to use a different one.  If the port number
  you choose is not correct, you will not be able to connect to the server
  even though you've specified the correct server name.  This field is also 
  mandatory.

  Your location can be specified with a single line of text and is only for
  the benefit of the other users online.  There is a similar, multi-line
  space for any additional information you'd like to share while online.
  Both of the above fields are completely optional, and you will lose no
  functionality if you choose to leave them blank. 


  Disconnecting

  Select 'File/Disconnect' from the menu to terminate your connection
  to the server.  Alternatively you can choose 'File/Exit' from the menu
  or manually close the client window.  Both of these last two options will
  disconnect you from the server before shutting down the Bvcse Chat
  client.


  Text Communication (chatting)

  To send text lines to the other connected users, you should type them
  into the 'Text lines to send' field.  Each time you press 'enter', the
  text in the field will be sent to all of the selected participants.

  You can select text in the 'Conference text' box and select 'Edit/Copy' 
  from the menu to copy it to the Bvcse program's buffer.  Choosing
  'Edit/Paste' will cause the text in the buffer to be transferred to the
  'Text lines to send' field.  You can then send the pasted text by
  pressing 'enter' in that field.

  If you or anyone else is typing something, you should see the message
  'typing: [user]' in the "Current activity" box while they are doing so.


  Drawing on the Canvas

  Standard drawing conventions are followed here.  Drawing components are
  created in the same way as with commercial drawing programs (i.e. mostly
  clicking and dragging).

  To set the drawing color, use the drop-down list provided.  Likewise,
  there are drop-down lists for choosing line thickness and whether shapes
  should be 'filled' or 'outlined'.

  To scribble on the canvas, select 'Draw freehand'.  You can then click
  and drag to draw like you would with a pen.

  To create rectangles or ovals, select either 'Rectangle' or 'Oval'.
  You can then click on the area of the canvas where one 'corner' of the
  shape should be, and drag to where the opposite 'corner' should reside.
  While dragging, a "draft" of the shape will be sketched on the canvas.
  When it looks the way you want, release the mouse button to finalize
  the image.

  To create text on the canvas, choose 'Text' and click on the canvas.
  A dialog box will pop up which asks you to select the font, size, style
  and text of the message.  Entering text and clicking 'Ok' will cause the
  dialog box to disappear, and your text will be "sticking" to your mouse
  cursor.  Click one more time on the canvas to finalize the location.  To
  cancel a text placement from the dialog box, simply click 'Ok' with nothing
  in the text field, or use the 'Cancel' button.

  Choosing 'Actions/Clear canvas' canvas on the menu or pushing the
 'Clear canvas' button will clear the drawing canvas.  If you are connected
  to a server, all other users in your chat room will have their canvasses
  cleared as well and they will receive the message "<<[user] cleared the
  canvas>>".  (Careful: other users might be angry if you do this while
  they're still using whatever is showing on the canvas.)

  If you or anyone else is drawing something, you should see the message
  'drawing: [user]' in the "Current activity" box while they are doing so.


  Communicating Privately

  You can choose to send your messages and drawings to all the other users
  in your current chat room (this is the default), or you can choose to
  communicate privately with selected users.  If you wish to do this, you
  should select the approprate user name in the 'Currently sending to' field.
  Each line you type will show something similar to the following in your
  conference text window:

	*private to andy mclaughlin*> hello

  It is shown this way both so that you can be sure you're only talking to
  the desired person, and so that you won't continue to "whisper" to one
  person inadvertently.  Likewise, when someone is sending private messages
  to you, it will look something like the following:

	*private from andy mclaughlin*> hello again

  If you wish to resume communications with all users, re-select 'Everyone'
  in the 'Currently sending to' field.

  It may be more convenient to create a private chat room and invite the
  desired participants.


  Chat Rooms

  As of Bvcse Chat version 2.0, it is possible for users to create and
  administer "chat rooms".  In order to use this feature, click on the 'Chat
  rooms...' button or select 'View/Chat rooms...' from the menu.  You will
  see a dialog box which displays all of the current chat rooms on the server.
  By selecting a chat room name from this list, you can find out more
  information about the room by clicking 'Room info', or you can enter the
  chat room by clicking 'Enter room'.

  Pressing the button 'Create room' will bring up another dialog box in
  which the settings for your new room can be chosen.  Here you can pick
  a name for the room, and indicate whether the room should be either
  "private" or accessible to all users (this is the default).  If you click
  the 'room is private' button, you'll need to explicitly invite users to
  allow them to join.

  After creating a chat room, another 'Chat room control' window will appear
  which enables the room creator to control access to the room (If you are
  the creator of any room you can raise this window by selecting 
  'View/Chat room control panel' from the menu).  The room creator can
  invite users into the room, boot users from the room, ban users from the
  room or allow them into the room.

  A chat room will exist as long as there are users in the room.


  Paging Users

  Choosing 'Actions/Page user(s)' on the menu or pushing the 'Page user(s)'
  button will both cause the user selected in the 'Currrently sending to'
  box to hear a sound on their terminal, along with the message
  "<< [user] is paging you >>".  If you don't select a user first (i.e.
  'Everyone' is selected) you will be paging everyone that's currently
  connected to the server.  If you don't want to be bothered by people
  who are trying to page you, un-check the 'View/Play sound when paged' menu
  item.

  NOTE ON PAGING: When you page someone it makes a sound like a screeching
  monkey.  People might find it annoying if you do this excessively.


  Messaging

  Choosing 'Actions/Messaging' on the menu or pushing the 'Messaging'
  button will invoke a dialog box in which you can specify the recipient
  and a message.  The message is sent as a single line of arbitrary length.
  There are actually 2 forms of messaging: "saved" e-mail style messages
  which are stored on the server and delivered later, and instant-message
  style messages which pop up immediately on the recipient's screen.  If
  you choose a saved message, then you must take care to specify the
  user's name the same way that the user commonly does when they log on,
  as they will not be able to read it otherwise.  If you want to send an
  instant message, then select the user's name from the list of connected
  participants.


  Receiving Messages

  If there are saved messages waiting for you, you will be notified when
  you first connect to a server.  At that time (or any other time) you can
  receive your messages by pressing the 'Messaging' button or by selecting
  'Actions/Messaging' from the menu, then pressing the "Read saved messages"
  button on the messaging window.  For each saved message, you will see a
  dialog box which lists the sender and the text of the message.


  Getting Information About the Other Connected Users

  If you select a user name in the 'Currently sending to' box, you can
  read any information they have chosen to share about themselves by 
  pressing the 'User information' button or choosing 'View/User information'
  from the menu.  The response from the server will appear in the conference
  text window.  This is only seen by you, and the user in question is not
  notified about the query.


  Ignoring Users

  Sometimes, you might find yourself wanting to "turn off" another user
  who has become abusive or annoying.  You can do so by selecting the user's
  name from the 'Currently sending to' list and then selecting
  'Actions/Ignore user(s)'.  Your client will then show you a list of all
  the users that you are ignoring.  Ignoring a user means that almost any
  action they take (such as typing, drawing, clearing the canvas, instant
  messaging and invitations to chat rooms) will no longer be seen by you.
  Note that you cannot "un-ignore" a user; your ignored user list persists
  while you are online, and is reset each time you connect to a server.


end.
